>> Join me now as we apply
the sacred geometry form
of the torus to activate and
clear our entire energy field
and experience how we are
ourselves in reality a grail
cup, which receives the divine
essence from above and below
to activate our central channel
of energy and the torus around
our entire energy field.
We'll start with our energy
field awareness practice
which we used
previously as the way
to get a baseline reading
on your energy field
before beginning any
energetic practice.
So you can then more clearly
see the effects of that practice
afterwards.
Simply close your eyes and
tune into the feeling of energy
in and around your body.
What does the energy feel like?
Then observe what is
currently in your thoughts
and in your emotions.
Remember, you are just observing
what is present inside you
before the practice to
get a baseline reading.
You're not trying to change
or manipulate anything.
Now, we begin the
torus practice.
Stand up with your feet
shoulder-width apart.
We will mirror with our hands
the movement of the energy
flowing in the torus.
The first part of
the practice will
be to run the
energy in the torus
through your central channel
from below to above and then
around the body.
This is the earthly energy flow.
On the inhalation, you
will pull the earth energy
up your central channel to the
area above your crown center.
To the height of where
your middle fingertips,
touch the central
column above your head
when your arms are
fully extended.
You will start with your
attention at an equal distance
below the feet as
the distance which
your middle fingertips extend
above your head in the column
above.
Make a mental note now
of where this point
is in the earth between
and below your feet.
When you have fully
inhaled, your hands
will then be fully
extended above your head
with the middle
fingertips touching
the top of the torus in
the column above your head.
On the exhalation, the
energy will flow downward
from this point above
your head around you
to all sides of
the body, showing
the extent of the
torus energy movement
to all sides of your body.
Your hands will mirror the
energy flow down the sides,
until at the end
of the exhalation,
you have return to
the starting point,
pointing both hands down to
the point below the feet.
A very important note is
that although our arms will
be mirroring the flow of energy
along the sides, in reality
the torus flow is all
around us like a sphere.
So make sure you
consciously extend
the energy just as far behind
you and in front of you
as you do out to the two sides
even though your hands are not
showing the flows to the front
and back, only to the sides.
Be aware that most
people unconsciously
project their energy much
further forward than they
do to the back, which creates
a subtle energetic imbalance.
Make sure you extend the torus
energy as a perfect sphere
all around you to
both sides and front
and back equally in a
perfect spherical form.
This exercise is very
valuable for restoring
the correct geometric
flow pattern
to the energy field
around our body
rather than the squashed
and distorted form it takes
unconsciously for most people.
We will now do a practice
run of the earthly torus flow
together.
Start by putting your attention
at the point between your feet
down in the ground.
Place your fingertips together
with your hands pointing down
between your legs.
Inhale and pull the earth
energy up from beneath you,
up between your feet
between the legs.
And then when the energy reaches
the level of your fingertips,
which are pointing
down, let your hands
start to rise with the
fingertips staying together,
moving your hands up to mirror
the energy movement all the way
up as the energy ascends.
Feel when the energy
penetrates into the perineum
at the base of your abdomen
and continues upward
through your central
column until it exits out
your head at the crown
center and then reaches
the top of the torus
at the place where
your middle fingertips touch,
when your arms are fully
extended above your head at
the end of the inhalation.
Now, exhale, letting
your hands part
and mirror the flow of
energy down along your sides
with your arms at
full extension,
until at the end
of the exhalation,
the fingertips come back
together with hands pointing
to the base of the torus
between and beneath your feet
back to the starting point.
For your regular
practice after this show,
do a total of seven repetitions
of this earthly flow each time.
Now, close your eyes while
you let your hands rest
by your side.
Once again, do the energy
field awareness practice.
So you can now feel how your
energy has shifted from doing
this earthly flow practice.
With your eyes closed, tune
into the feeling of the energy
in and around your body.
How does your energy
feel different to you
after doing the earthly
torus flow practice?
Note that common sensations
with the earthly torus flow
are increased heat
and energy flow
in the body along with a feeling
of stability and groundedness.
Sometimes you will
be particularly
aware of areas of
your body where
the energy was blocked or
stagnant as the increased
energy flow makes you aware
of these problem areas needing
to be cleared and have
their full power restored
through more repetitions of
the torus energy movement.
Now, we will experience the
complementary opposite flow,
the heavenly flow,
from above downwards.
The practice is the same
as with the earthly flow,
only now we are reversing
the flow directions.
Please join with me as we
go through the essentials
of the practice.
Start with your arms at full
extension above your head,
fingertips together at
the top of the torus.
As you inhale, you
will pull the energy
from this point above your
head, bringing the divine energy
into your crown center,
feeling the profound impact
of this energy flow into
your central channel.
Let your hands mirror the
movement of the energy
through your central
channel until it exits out
the perineum at the
base of your abdomen,
reaching the point between
and below your feet
at your full inhalation, with
your arms at full extension,
pointing downwards with the
fingertips together aimed
at the location
between your feet.
Then exhale and bring the energy
up in all directions around you
along the sphere
boundary of the torus,
mirroring the energy
movement with your arms
extended outwards to
the sides rising up,
until the fingertips come
back together at full arm
extension above your head at
the end of the exhalation.
We'll do this practice
together three times.
When you practice this
heavenly flow in the future,
do seven full repetitions of
this energy flow every time.
Now, relax and let your
arms drop to your sides.
Close your eyes and again do
the energy field awareness
practice, tuning in to the
changed feeling of energy
in and around your body.
How does your energy
feel different now?
The energy sensations of this
downwards heavenly energy flow
can be quite different from the
upwards earthly energy flow,
although both can create
significant heat and energy
movement in the body.
Each direction of flow
has its own effects
for clearing and recharging
your energy field.
You could choose to do
either direction of flow
or do them one after
another as we have done here
to get the benefits of both.
There is another
more advanced method
for the torus flow,
one which tends
to be quite hidden in
classical traditions
and which is very potent.
This is the advanced
practice of running
the earthly and heavenly
flows simultaneously.
In other words, both
directions at the same time.
This is a major secret of
advanced energy practices.
When two complementary energy
flows collide together,
this can open up a gating effect
for higher dimensional energies
to enter into a system.
This is the same
alchemical principle
as the union of opposite
complementary female yin
and male yang energies opening
up a gating for a new life
to enter into the world.
For this exercise,
we will use one hand
to mirror the upward
moving earthly flow
and the other hand will mirror
the downward moving heavenly
flow.
It is fine to use whichever
hand you prefer for each flow.
If you have no preference,
then start with your right arm
at full extension
connecting to the top
of the torus above your head and
your left arm at full extension
pointing down to the
bottom of the torus
between and beneath your feet.
For this practice, you
will, on the inhalation,
simultaneously breathe energy
down the central channel
from the point above
the head and up
the central channel from
the point beneath the feet.
These two flows will
pass through one
another creating the gating
effect for higher level
energies.
Each hand will
mirror the movement
of each directional flow.
Your hands moving in
opposite directions
will pass by one
another around the level
of the navel at the
midpoint of your inhalation.
Join me now as we practice the
coordination of the breathing
with the movement of
energy, which is mirrored
in your hands' movement.
With one arm fully extended down
and one arm fully extended up,
breathe in and pull the energy
down from the top of the torus
above your head and
into the crown center
to descend down the central
column mirrored by your hand
movement downwards to the same
height as the descending energy
you are focusing on.
While simultaneously, you are
breathing in and pulling up
the energy from the bottom of
the torus beneath your feet,
mirroring the energy movement
upwards with your hands.
As you pull in the energy on
the inhalation from both the top
and the bottom of the
torus simultaneously,
be aware when the ascending
and descending focal points
are passing through one
another around the level
of your abdomen.
This is when your two
hands pass one another.
Although we are focusing on
just one part of each energy
movement with our hands
moving upwards and downwards,
in reality, there are two
complete rotating torus
movements.
And the entirety of
both Taurus fields
are moving through one another
throughout the practice.
Then at the end of
the full end breath,
your arms will again be
extended upwards and downwards,
only now the opposite arm is
at the top or bottom position
than when you began in breath.
Then, with the
exhalation, each hand
will again mirror your focal
point of the complete movement
of the energy as they
sweep off to each side
to show the spherical
boundary of the torus going
up and down on opposite
sides simultaneously,
until at the full
exhalation the hands are
back in their original
fully extended positions
up and down, in place to begin
the next inhalation and energy
movement.
This exercise not only opens
up a gate for higher level
energies to enter your system.
It also is excellent for
activating and coordinating
both brain hemispheres through
the simultaneous counter
movements of both
sides of the body.
As you experience
this practice, focus
on the feeling of these
two divine nectars:
the illuminating heavenly flow
energy and the strengthening
earthly flow energy
as they alchemically
connect like lovers inside
your body and all around you.
Be aware of the exquisite
nectar, the flavor, the quality
of the dynamic flow of
both energies through one
another streaming in
and around your body.
Let's now do the movement
three times together.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
In the future, do
seven repetitions
when you do this practice
to get the full power of it.
Remember to close your eyes
at the end of the practice
and relax, dropping
your arms by your sides.
Use the energy field
awareness practice
to simply observe how the energy
feels in and around your body.
How has this counter-rotating
movement of the two torus
affected your energy
and consciousness?
How does this feel
different to you
from the simple earthly or
heavenly torus flow practices?
If the energy generated
by these practices
feels too intense for you,
it is important to know
that the safe place to gather
and store energy in your body
is in the lower abdomen region.
It is not safe to store
intense energy accumulations
in the chest or in the head.
So if you feel too much
energy in your body
from these practices,
simply focus your attention
at an area about
an inch and a half
below the level of the navel
in the center of your body.
Spin the energy
there in a vortex,
either clockwise or
counterclockwise,
whichever feels more
comfortable to you,
into this location to pull in
and gather the energy there.
This is a safe place to collect
and store the excess energy
that you have generated.
You can now activate the torus
in your energy field any time
you choose, bringing
the clearing
and recharging divine energies
into the grail cup of your body
through using this practice.
There are many other powerful
and important torus energy
activations for the human
body and energy field.
You can learn these
advanced activations
through the online courses
on my website www.vesica.org.
[MUSIC PLAYING]